hi there I have an idea for you as soon
as it gets warm outside try leaving a
spoonful of sugar in your backyard or on
your balcony this simple action may seem
meaningless at first sight but it has
the potential to save people from
starvation for many people
bees are nothing but a summer bother
that spoils a perfect picnic what these
people don't know is that bees feed a
whopping 90 percent of the world's
population but an even more important
and alarming thing to consider is that
nowadays these colourful insects are
dying out at an alarming speed Sir David
Attenborough a famous zoologist is sure
that if bees win extinct people wouldn't
survive longer than four years later on
in this video you'll find out why bees
are that important for human beings
why are bees dying out in the US alone
the honeybee population has dropped by
almost twenty five percent since 1990
the most significant decrease happened
in the last five years when the number
of bees reduced by 1/3 the reason for
such a dramatic change is colony
collapse disorder that's a mysterious
phenomenon when perfectly healthy bees
leave their hives and never return
researchers haven't figured out what
makes bees abandon their homes however
according to scientific estimates more
than one-third of all honeybee colonies
in the US are now empty
what's more the number of hives is
currently at its lowest for 50 years
some theories may explain colony
collapse disorder
[Music]
first of all scientists have drawn a
connection between the disappearance of
honeybees and global warming due to this
massive climate change flowers start to
bloom earlier when bees wake up from
hibernation some flowers have already
finished blooming unfortunately these
are the very flowers bees need for
survival at the start of the season
another opinion is that bees die out
because farmers use too many pesticides
although producers apply these chemical
substances to get rid of pests
they also harm innocent honeybees the
authorities in some countries have
banned such pesticides but a number of
dangerous chemicals are still available
in some regions of the US the reason for
colony collapse disorder could also lie
in the loss of the honeybee habitat
people abandon farms grow crops in a way
that doesn't leave any space for
wildlife or plant flowers that are
harmful to pollinators finally some
researchers believe that bees may be
abandoning their hives
because of parasites mites moths hive
beetles or even ants the varroa mites
that infest colonies transfer dwv deform
wing virus which results in deformities
of the wings and abdomen
in adult honeybees how can you help the
buzzers to survive sometimes bees get
too tired to return to their hives and
don't even have the energy to move most
people consider such as bees dead and
sweep the little critters away however a
solution of water and sugar and help an
exhausted bee to recover to prepare this
sweep drink you'll need to mix one
tablespoon of water and two tablespoons
of granulated white sugar pour this
concoction into several little plates or
spoons and leave them somewhere outside
where bees will be able to reach the
food
white sugar also known as sucrose can
help honeybee supplement the shortage of
honey in their hives this will then
prevent the colony from starvation bees
usually collect sucrose which is one of
the main components of nectar from
blooming flowers only after that do they
process this substance and store it in
the form of honey later during the
winter or when there is no available
flowering plants bees use this stash of
honey in addition you can plant bee
friendly flowers on your balcony or in
your garden to help your local bees
thrive
remember that bees favorite colors are
yellow orange and blue choose plants
which have flowers of these colors but
why are B so important these are some of
the main pollinators on earth although
there are a lot of other pollinating
creatures like bats birds butterflies
and beetles
however honey bees are the most numerous
and hardworking of them all one-third of
all the food on the planet depends on
how well bees work they pollinate more
than 80 percent of flowering plants in
the u.s. these little critters pollinate
up to 75% of vegetables fruits and nuts
and more than 80% of all crops these
insects are also crucial for the dairy
and meat industry because they pollinate
alfalfa and clover which are some of the
primary food sources for cattle bees are
also great for the economy of a country
contributing as much as fifteen billion
dollars a year to the US economy besides
every year bees make honey for a
whopping 150 million dollars some
products such as almonds can be
pollinated exclusively by honeybees
the California almond industry needs
about 1.4 million bee colonies every
year that 60% of all the honeybee hives
in the u.s. at the same time this region
produces 80% of all the almonds in the
world bringing in more than four point
eight billion dollars a year so as you
can see bees are irreplaceable for our
planet and it's crucial to do everything
you can to save them but how well do you
know these little critters here are
several astounding bee facts to make
just one pound of honey a bee has to get
nectar for more than two million flowers
on top of that this bee would have to
fly approximately 90,000 miles to do
this for comparison the length of the
Equator is just under 25,000 miles in
its whole lifetime the average honeybee
will only make 1/12 of a teaspoon of
honey a bee can develop a speed of 15
miles per hour
while doing this it also beats its wings
more than 200 times per second there are
usually between 20,000 and 60,000 bees
and just one Queen in each colony
surprisingly all the worker bees are
female while the lifespan of a regular
worker honeybee is about six weeks the
Queen can live as long as five years
honeybees are very traditional the way
they produce honey today is exactly the
same as it was 50 million years ago when
a honeybee locates a promising source of
nectar it returns to the hive there it
dances in front of its mates by doing
this the bee explains the exact position
of the flower bees have an amazing sense
of smell each honeybee has 170 odorant
receptors and it uses them to look for
the best flowers and communicate with
its mates
the queen is extremely busy during the
summer yeah think that's when this most
important bee lays more than 2,500 eggs
per day which bee fact has surprised you
the most
tell us about your impressions in the
comment section below remember to hit
the like button share this video with
your friends and subscribe to the
channel to move to the bright side of
life
[Music]